well throughout the war in Gaza Al jazer
has documented more than 50 attacks
against our journalists here are just
some of them in October several family
members of alzer's Gaza bureau chief W
aladu were killed an Israeli air strike
killed his wife his 15-year-old son
7-year-old daughter and one-year-old
grandson that same month an Israeli
strike killed 19 members of an aler
broadcast engineer's family Muhammad
abuk K Sam's family was Sheltering in
the jabali refugee camp in December Al
jaer correspondent anas Al Sharif lost
his father in an Israeli strike
targeting his family's house in jabalia
and also in December a drone strike
killed Al jazer cameraman Sam Abu Daka
while wounding bureau chief while aladu
then in January Aldo's oldest son Hamza
who also works for aler was killed when
his car was targeted by a drone strike
he had been trying to interview
displaced civilians when his vcle was
struck Carlos Martinez DEA he is a
program director at the committee to
protect journalists he joins us now from
New York Carlos that's quite the list I
feel it speaks for
itself yeah it's really unacceptable uh
I just hear a journalists have paid the
ultimate price while covering this world
you mention um all the incidents all the
many cases many come to my mind as we
researched when those happened the F
their families killed journalist being
killed while on duty um their incredible
contribution to add a point of view from
Gaza from the region on the war and
Israel in the next and probably the most
significant one of the most significant
steps in controlling the information
around the world and
actually enacting a regime of censorship
has ban Al jir from operating within
Israel that's completely acceptable your
organization has released a statement
condemning Israel's actions today you're
worried that this sets
precedent it it clearly sets a prent um
it's important to uh remind that there's
no proof there's no document has made
available for anyone to try to
understand the reasoning behind this
decision just the has been deemed a
national Threat by the Israel cinet and
supposed there's supposed to be a
document it's National Security document
or any or something like that that might
have some information but this is a
pattern that Israel follows in terms of
criminalizing Journalism and then making
decisions about that and this is another
very flagrant step but definitely sets a
president for any International
Organization or or or journalist
reporting within Israel about what they
can expect if they do critical
controversy rep well we're still
reporting from Gaza and the occupied
West Bank but are you concerned that a
decision like this in Israel puts our
colleagues there at even more risk if
Israel now officially doesn't view aler
journalists as legitimate members of the
press it is um as I said there's a
pattern in the Israeli in this case
military of of criminalizing Journalism
of trying to justify the attacks on
journalists including journalists being
killed and then um being the subject of
misinformation and propaganda campaigns
trying to deact them with something that
they aren't like they're just journalist
reporting on on issues of public
interest so in this case by clearly
Banning a whole operation they're adding
uh another pretext to continue attacking
and and Al and also uh in in the war
against journalism right like it's
continuously an effort to undermine
the really important and and necessary
reporting on the war and around the war
in the region well our political analyst
Maan bashara pointed out um earlier here
on our air it feels like there's been
little outrage from Israeli journalists
on the closure of Al jazer in Israel
what do you make of
that I'm not inside Israel I don't I
don't know how this information is being
taken and it's being read my
understanding there's um it's a highly
polarized Society that's my
understanding there's some people really
asking for different cour for the war
different types of completely different
approach to the war what I can say being
outside of Israel is everyone who cares
about PR Freedom everyone who who cares
about democracy needs to be extremely
concerned within Israel about this
decision it's not about them caring or
not caring about alira it's about the
principle that is at stake and is being
clearly attacked Carlos Martinez Dela
their program director at the committee
to protect journalists thank you for
joining us today on Al jazer sir thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
alaza